I'm Charlotte Mloud with
investingnews.com and here today with me
is Tavi Costa, CEO of Azuria Capital.
Thank you so much for being here. Great
to have you.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for having me. Looking forward to
this.
&gt;&gt; Me as well. And I think the first thing
on the list, people may notice that we
introduced you with a different company.
So maybe you want to share a little bit
about your new venture and the goals
there.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that was a a company that we're
going to be investing in a few different
parts of the market. Uh mining is going
to be a specific area that I want to be
uh invested in. These uh strategies are
going to be sort of aiming to deploy
capital for the next 5 to 10 years.
These are macro themes that I believe
will unfold in markets for the long
term. And I really want to make sure we
deploy the capital the best way we can
in those areas. So one is going to be
mining, one is going to be energy and
another area is going to be emerging
markets mostly Latin America. So uh
initially it's going to be funded uh
internally and then um at some point
we're going to uh take external capital
as well. So that's that's basically
we're going after. It's going to be a
fun time. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Very exciting. I think a
good time to be starting something new
and we'll try to get into all the three
topics that you mentioned there. I
thought we could start with your PDAC
presentation from yesterday since that's
where we are right now. We're at PDAC. I
didn't get a chance to see it, but the
title is an inflection point for
commodities. Can you describe that
inflection point you're seeing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean this was a tough one
because we have to come up with the
title four months before the
presentation. So, um I'm I'm glad it's
still relevant. Uh because it is
relevant. I mean, I think we've seen
gold prices go up a lot.
&gt;&gt; Commodity prices overall have actually
uh not kept up with with gold prices.
And I do think we're going to see a
major catch up. Um and so we are in an
inflection point for a lot of other
commodities outside of metals. Even I
think energy is starting to have a move,
but when you start seeing uh energy uh
commodities begin to move, you start to
see also agricultural commodities do the
same. And so there's going to be a lot
of opportunities in different parts of
the resource market. But I'm also very
excited about things like copper. I
think copper is on the verge of a major
uh move as well. Um, we've seen gold,
we've seen silver sort of establish
themselves in prices that I think are
historically elevated obviously and
mining companies are still yet to catch
up to those levels when it comes to
their margins are just exceptional in in
these prices and so we haven't seen yet
the equity value be rerated at at these
uh at these price uh uh that we're
seeing for metals and so that's going to
be a big change and so I'm I'm really
excited about all those all those parts
but the inflection point in in
commodities overall as we see gold
prices staying here is going to be a big
uh investment thesis in my view.
&gt;&gt; Well, and I think what might make sense
to talk about in that case. So, where do
you see gold in the cycle right now?
We'll have all these other points
following on from gold, but where do you
see it at the moment?
&gt;&gt; Well, I think there's a sense that gold
has gone up a lot and and won't go up
anymore. And I I don't believe in that
at all. Oh, I think there's the
structural demand is coming from central
banks. They still own about 20 to 25% of
their balance sheets in gold.
Historically, you tend to see it up to
70 plus% when they reach to a peak. So,
there's a lot of room. You can also look
at the gold market relative to overall
market cap of equity markets. I think
we're somewhere close to um you know,
multiples away from prior peaks. The
mining industry today is about 1% of
overall global equity markets. Back in
other eras when the mining industry was
as relevant as is becoming now was
somewhere close to 11%. So a 1% to 11%
is multiples from here. So there's a lot
of um a lot of movement still ahead of
us in my view. I think there's a lot of
uh skepticism over the sustainability of
these moves and I am not skeptical at
all. I think I think we're I think
institutions are catching up with the
idea of owning metals, owning resource
companies and it's a very complex
industry. So it drove the market quite a
lot recently because it's a small market
but there's lags. I mean I think this is
a very capital intensive industry uh and
it's going to be it's going to be
attracting a lot of capital. This is
going to grow tremendously in my view.
So this is the time to be in my in my
opinion just you know heads down trying
to find your best projects and your best
ways of expressing these opinions in the
markets because it's going to be a
long-term trend in my opinion.
&gt;&gt; I think that's definitely a theme I've
been hearing specifically here at PDAC
is the larger institutions from outside
the sector are now just starting to be
ready to come in. So when you look at
gold and silver in terms of the prices,
do you have price levels in mind or just
upward?
&gt;&gt; No, I don't I don't usually
&gt;&gt; for me my own principles of investing. I
don't think of from a price target
standpoint. I guess I'm not smart enough
to figure it out where the prices go.
But I think from a sort of think about
having a checklist of things that you
tend to reach at the peak of the cycle.
So we'll give a few examples.
when production begins to inflct higher
in a significant way, supply will
increase. Obviously, it's going to have
an impact on prices. One, we're not
seeing that. We're seeing contraction of
of supply in most cases. When prices go
up a lot in metals, there is also a rush
towards discoveries and then you tend to
see, you know, sort of a period of
discoveries. We're not seeing that. I
mean, especially in gold and copper and
silver, those three metals, we haven't
seen any discoveries whatsoever. So,
that's another aspect. capex. A lot of
people tend to look at capex nominally,
but you you got to look at capex
relative to GDP, size of the economy or
inflation adjusted. You can also look
that relative to gold prices. And I you
know that number is still, you know,
really low, very depressed. We haven't
seen that yet. M&amp;A, we're seeing some
M&amp;A happen between the senior companies,
but we're not seeing that go down to the
path of senior companies is starting to
buy a bunch of juniors. That's yet to
happen. So sort of wake me up when all
these things are there and and then I
will I will certainly change my view and
you can also look at metal prices
relative to money supply um and other
factors that you can look at in in terms
of I'll give you another one gold
reserves in the US relative to federal
debt outstanding. So today we're about
3%. So if you think about it the US debt
is backed by 3% of of gold reserves.
back in the 1940s was over 50%. So can
we go back to that? I mean these are big
numbers and so as we see that unfolding
I think I think the price is is you know
is yet to reflect these changes. So
&gt;&gt; I think it makes a lot of sense to look
at it like that and I want to go back to
the point you made about the lack of
discoveries in gold, silver, copper. You
had a good chart about that when it
comes to gold on X the other day. So why
why is that? Is that because we have
found all the ones that are easy? Is it
a lack of capital for juniors to explore
some combination?
&gt;&gt; What is going on?
&gt;&gt; I think it's the latter because there's
plenty gold to be found. Of course, it's
becoming geologically challenging to
find gold discoveries. I'm not saying
it's easy by any means, but there are
discoveries out there to be found. Um,
surprisingly, I'll give you one stat. If
you look, the S&amp;P Global has a a way of
tracking exploration budgets for
companies in Canada, which is majority
of the the sector. And you can see that
it's at a 4-year low. So, we're we're
seeing metal prices, silver prices go
above 100 for the first time in history,
and then we have gold prices reaching
5,000 and still exploration budgets are
falling. So, you know, I think Pneumont
just fired most of their exploration
geologists. I mean that that's I'm
talking about their exploration growth
aspect of arm of their business. And so
we're not in a world where um companies
are desperate to find new discoveries
yet which is kind of shocking actually
because of prices being so high. What
level of price do we have to see until
people start really you know dumping
capital into this this early stage of
the industry? So I don't know the answer
to that but I'm paying attention to it.
And the fact that we are not seeing any
capital come in, that's a leading
indicator for discoveries. So if there's
no capital coming in, there's not going
to be any discoveries. And so yeah, you
can kind of time it that in the next 3
to 5 years, there's not going to be much
of a change. Maybe seven years, not much
of a change of supply. So um where we
have a crunch in a lot of different
metals for sure.
&gt;&gt; Right. Right. Things do move so slowly.
So you can project that out into the
future. All right. So we're in this
situation. We've got gold moving. The
rest of the commodities are going to
follow. And we'll talk a little bit more
about that in just a moment. But I
wanted to bring up the US dollar in this
context because we've talked in the past
about how it's facing a major long-term
decline versus other currencies.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's scary because not scary, but
it's it's just part of macro cyclicality
and how there are some secular trends
happening right now. Gold is one of
them. But the second one that I think
people need to pay attention to and open
up their eyes for is the derivatives of
the gold trade. And one of them is the
depreciation of the US dollar. Not just
versus hard assets, but also versus
other fiat currencies. A lot of people
have dismissed that opportunity of, you
know, thinking that maybe the Canadian
dollar or the Canadian peso is going to
rally. Uh, and it's possible. I do
believe it's possible. the Japanese yen
could rally and most of the the the sort
of uh you know normal people that follow
markets outside of the macro people um
don't believe that that's that's a
reality and it is a reality. I mean
we're seeing emerging market currencies
do better than than the dollar. I think
that a stability of the currency outside
of the US is going to be a very
important theme for investing. In other
words, the US economy is in a situation
where in my view has to do two things. I
mean, it's got two major issues. One, a
deficit problem on the fiscal side and a
deficit problem on the trade balance
side. To fix those two problems, you
needed to I think you need to do two
things. One, lower rates. No matter
where inflation is, no matter where
labor markets are, you got to lower
rates substantially. And the second
thing is going to be to weaken the
dollar. So that's going to be the green
light for investing in emerging markets
in a big way. We're seeing that already
happen in the last um call it six to 12
months. But I I think that that's going
to accelerate over time. This is a
structural change in the market that
people are not paying attention to. And
I get excited about Latin America
because I think on top of it all, you
also have a political shift happening in
that whole area. It's Argentina, it's
Paraguay, it's Bolivia, it it will
likely be Brazil, it will likely be
Colombia. we're seeing in Panama. It
could be in Mexico one day. I mean, look
at what's going on in Mexico. It's going
to be pressure for a new political
leadership there at some point. And so,
I'm excited about that whole region
because I think it's going to be a big
investment opportunity,
&gt;&gt; right? And we've talked about that
opportunity in the past. Maybe you can
detail, remind us how somebody might go
about getting exposure to emerging
markets like Latin America.
Well, I would think from a always from a
a standpoint of of of reallocation of
capital. First of all, when you think
about the dollar weakening, I would say
that will have an impact on USbased
assets, capital that will flow out of
those assets and go into other
countries. So, there's going to be
opportunities elsewhere, even in Europe,
believe it or not. Um and then you can
think of emerging markets is kind of
your risky bucket of the rest of the
world. 80% of emerging markets index is
in Asia. And so there's going to be a
rotation within emerging markets from
Asia likely into places like Latin
America which are only 7% of the
emerging markets index. So that's why
I'm so focused on that. It's like it's
like looking at mining and saying it's
only 1% of the overall market cap of of
the global equity markets. And so I
think that's going to be an important
trend. I would also mention another
thing. Let's look at Brazil
specifically. Brazil has about same GDP
it was in 2013. Okay. So over 10 years
same GDP it was back then actually was
slightly higher. It begs the question
why is that? And and the most normal
answer people will give I know people
are thinking about that would be it's
the dollar and it is the dollar. The
dollar had an impact on that. The dollar
went up too much relative to the real
but another thing is is interest rate
environment. The interest rate
environment in the country is about 15%.
That's your risk-free rate. So you as a
company would be actually borrowing
money at I don't know 25 30%. How do you
grow a business with those rates of cost
of capital? So once we see the US
economy having to lower rates
substantially, it's going to open the
door for the U for Brazil and other
economies to lower rates too. Once we
see that, it's going to unleash those
economies in a big way. I do think
that's you want to be looking for
interest rate sensitive assets. Real
estate is one of them. There's others um
in those areas that would be unlocked a
lot of value that have not been unlocked
for for many many decades. So yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I said this earlier in a
different conversation, but there's a
lot of rotations going on right now.
&gt;&gt; I want to go back to commodities. So, we
have gold and silver. They're moving and
we're looking at what's going to be
coming next. And I'm hearing a lot about
oil and gas, the energy sector, and you
mentioned that as one of the places that
you want to focus. So, what are you
seeing there? How are you how are you
approaching that right now, those
markets in energy?
&gt;&gt; Well, energy is interesting from a lot
of ways. is I mean it's very underowned
uh in regards to even in the US base
assets if you look at the US base assets
energy is one of the lowest ownerships
across sectors um I would say you're
also looking at the drill drilling
activity in the US which tends to lead
production is contracting by about 30%
in the last next in the last two to
three years which will have an impact on
on production eventually um and you look
at the futures market uh which we can
look at how much speculators are betting
on things and we had not too long ago
one of the most shorted positions in
history. And so there's not many themes
where you have this sort of again a
checklist of ideas that sort of telling
you well you should maybe pay attention
to this. And so when I saw that I
started buying a bunch of derivatives
call options on energy companies. And
then the last thing I would mention, I
mean there's a lot more to mention, but
the other thing I would mention is if
you look at a chart of gold miners, uh,
they've been going up. If you look at a
chart of copper miners, they trend very
similarly, but they lag a little bit
gold. So when gold prices or gold miners
went up, copper miners have started
going up too now. And if you look at
energy companies, they are sort of like
lagging slightly behind. And we have
seen a 2-year consolidation and now
starting to move. I think it could be
explosive. I think a lot of people are
dismissing the opportunity. A lot of
people think that, you know, electrical
vehicles and all those changes are
already being priced in oil markets now.
And I disagree. I think I think there's
going to be lots of opportunities in the
next few years here in this energy
space. And so I've been very focused on
that side of it. I think you can make
money on the midcap and the large cap.
You can still play derivatives. I think
there's opportunities in oil itself or
gas, net gas. Um, refineries look
attractive. You can even play the game
of buying a mix of ideas. You can buy
energy in emerging markets and you're
playing both, you know, like petroast
for instance and and other companies.
And so, yeah, I think there's a lot of
attractiveness in those in those
thoughts.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I think that gives people a
lot of ideas on how to approach it. And
just to be clear, so when we're talking
about energy, are we looking
specifically at oil and gas and related
things? Okay. So, not not so much the
uranium side of things.
&gt;&gt; I mean, I like uranium. I'm just I just
think that uh in this case specific that
I was making the case for was was energy
related to oil and gas. But uranium
looks attractive too. I mean, it's been
um a good trade over the years and and
it is also in a structural trend. So
it's one of those just like emerging
markets if you see a 10 15 20% pull back
it's one of the things you want to be
deploying capital again. So um yeah I
mean there's a few of the these trends
and every time you have an opportunity
market will give you an opportunity you
come in and you know so yeah it's still
attractive as well. So
&gt;&gt; yeah it makes a lot of sense and I'll
I'll just briefly mention copper and
take a look at how you're approaching
copper right now. I've tended to hear
about it as a longer term story, but it
feels like the narrative is being
brought forward for various reasons. So,
what would be the time frame you're
looking at for copper?
&gt;&gt; I think in the one or two year horizon,
copper is sort of where silver was not
too long ago and you saw this explosive
move here that could happen here. Um,
certainly. And the reason for it is
because we hit a phase that is called a
discovery phase. when you get a
discovery phasing price, none of us know
where it goes. And it could be, you
know, it could be a double, it could be
more. I I don't know. But, uh, and it
could be a little less, too. Um, but I I
think it it could look very explosive.
That's why I'm I'm very um opportunistic
about that. And I would mention another
commodity because if you look at a
course like all commodities in the last
year or two years of performance, you're
going to find the laggers. The laggers
are not a problem. They're usually an
opportunity. So you want to pay
attention to that bottom. And that
bottom you're going to find agricultural
commodities. And when energy turns,
which is turning,
&gt;&gt; agricultural commodities turn too. So
I'm paying attention to a few things
there. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So we're talking like pachsh, phosphate,
that kind of thing or something else.
&gt;&gt; Or corn,
&gt;&gt; you know, things like that, too. So um
&gt;&gt; yeah, I mean there's there's plenty
plenty ways to play it. Um, and for
those that understand those markets, I
think there's going to be opportunities
there. I mean, think about it. You got
natural gas prices going up and then you
have fertilizers, ammonia prices go up
and then eventually drives uh the
situation with agricultural. So, that's
why they're all linked to each other.
And when you see something lagging
substantially and you are potentially in
a long-term cycle for commodities, you
want to pay very close attention to the
laggers. They're usually your best bet
for the next one to two years. Yeah.
Yeah. I think great takeaway and I just
want to go back to silver. You mentioned
maybe copper could be looking like the
next silver. Everybody wants to know
what that could be. You had another good
chart that is essentially comparing
&gt;&gt; silver miners to silver ratio and it's
it looks like it's at a low point. So
what does that tell us about the price
and the miners?
&gt;&gt; It tell us that the market thinks that
silver prices at these levels is
unsustainable and I don't believe in
that. And so if you want investing
mining companies today, you have to
answer that question. What's your view
on that? My view is that we're no longer
in an environment where silver prices
will go low like they were in the last
two decades. Meaning, are we going to go
back to $25 an ounce environment? I
think it's highly unlikely. Some people
will tell you that silver has already
crashed from 120 and it's on the way
down. That's not my opinion. If that's
your view, miners are pricing that. If
your view is maybe we'll stay where it
is now. Right now we're maybe even going
back to 100. I mean it's it's you know
it's at a 85 and 90 and now went close
to 100 again. I don't know. Your guess
is as good as mine and this is why I
like the miners because the miners at
this environment what who cares where it
is? Some of these companies are have
margins better than Google, right? I
mean a lot of these companies are mining
at about $15 $17 an ounce. If you're
selling them the commodity 80, 90, 100,
I mean, what type of margin is that? So,
it just feels like that operational
leverage in the market of mining is just
not being priced reflecting the price
correctly. And I think I think it's
going to be a lot of rerating in that
aspect. So,
&gt;&gt; yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense.
And we're coming to the end. I'm going
to give you before I let you go, my fun
question that I'm trying to ask
everybody. So, if there was a young
person, yeah, they're new to the
resource sector, they have $10,000 they
want to deploy, how would you tell them
to do that?
&gt;&gt; $10,000, how they would do it? Um,
I think I think I would deploy
in different H that's a good question. I
think I would put some maybe $3,000 or
so into um agricultural commodities.
uh just because the timing of things, I
would put another
three three to 4,000 into energy
and
I would look for
some maybe copper miners as the
remainer.
Um yeah, I think that that sound Yeah, I
mean that would probably be one place to
to to to be
separating the capital. I mean, I'm just
trying to think here out loud, but yeah,
I like I like the symmetry of
agricultural. I like this the the the
trending of energy and I like the
long-term idea of mining. So, I suspect
that mining that agriculture will be
your most asymmetric path in the next
two two years or so, but you said long
term. So, I think mining looks very
attractive for long term and could be
your biggest winner. So, um
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Does that answer your question?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I think I like to hear the thought
process, too. So, thank you for for
handling that one.
&gt;&gt; You know, I think there's a lot of, you
know, I invest a lot in exploration and
exploration is you you you make a bunch
of investments on things and and you
make several mistakes, but if you get
one right, that's that's what pays off
everything, all the mistakes you made.
Macro is very similar and people get
very political and they
they eventually never looking for
something that is exceptionally cheap.
When I apply macro analysis into
markets, there's a few things that look
exceptionally cheap today that could be
extremely asymmetric. Again, I could be
wrong in three of them and if I get one
right, it's going to go on. One of them
is agricultural for sure. The second
one, people are going to call me
absolutely crazy, is TLT, call options.
In other words, treasuries, long-term
treasuries, because nobody believes that
the interest rates are going to fall
substantially. So, if you take the risk
on the long end of the curve, which
everybody's going to call me crazy, I
get it. That is very cheap. Number three
is Chinese equities. I know Chinese
equities is a second order effect, third
order effect on the dollar weakening
trade. dollar weakens, Chinese equities
could explode. Now, of course, you do
this call options because you don't
know, I don't know if they're going to
invade Taiwan tomorrow and you know, you
lose all your money. So, if you do
through call options, you know what you
lose. And
there's a fourth one that it's going to
surprise you. I also like call options
on
German banks. That's very nothing to do
with resources. um these things you just
they are exceptionally cheap. These are
very very cheap two-year options that if
you get one of them right, it's just um
you know that's how you make most of
your capital. So I like doing these
things every now and then and I have
this sort of kind of derivatives account
that I I play these bats and it it works
really well because you always get one
right. If you get one right then then it
sort of makes up for your losses and so
because they're cheap, right? And it's
not because,
you know, you you're playing a cheap
market and nobody believes in it. I get
it. Nobody believes in it. That's fine.
But if one of them is right, it's it's a
exceptional investment. So, yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. That's really interesting. I
guess if people are calling you crazy,
maybe that's a good place to be.
&gt;&gt; Oh, I love being called crazy. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, okay. I will let us wrap it
up there. I'll send you back out unless
you had any very very final thoughts. Um
I don't have any final final thoughts um
aside from
being very focused on those these three
big trends that I think are going to be
remarkably important for investors and
also the fact that we
&gt;&gt; I keep thinking about a world if you
think about all these trade ideas that I
mentioned they kind of fall in the
category of beneficiaries of two things
awakening dollar and or
falling interest rates in the class and
so that's that's where I come from in
terms of my views.
&gt;&gt; I think that ties it together nicely.
So, thank you so much for taking the
time. This was great.
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; Okay. And once again, I'm Charlotte
Mloud with investingnews.com and this is
Tabby Costa.
