>> yeah it makes a lot of sense and I'll I'll just briefly mention copper and take a look at how you're approaching copper right now. I've tended to hear about it as a longer term story, but it feels like the narrative is being brought forward for various reasons. So, what would be the time frame you're looking at for copper? >> I think in the one or two year horizon, copper is sort of where silver was not too long ago and you saw this explosive move here that could happen here. Um, certainly. And the reason for it is because we hit a phase that is called a discovery phase. when you get a discovery phasing price, none of us know where it goes. And it could be, you know, it could be a double, it could be more. I I don't know. But, uh, and it could be a little less, too. Um, but I I think it it could look very explosive. That's why I'm I'm very um opportunistic about that. And I would mention another commodity because if you look at a course like all commodities in the last year or two years of performance, you're going to find the laggers. The laggers are not a problem. They're usually an opportunity. So you want to pay attention to that bottom. And that bottom you're going to find agricultural commodities. And when energy turns, which is turning, >> agricultural commodities turn too. So I'm paying attention to a few things there. Yeah. >> So we're talking like pachsh, phosphate, that kind of thing or something else. >> Or corn, >> you know, things like that, too. So um >> yeah, I mean there's there's plenty plenty ways to play it. Um, and for those that understand those markets, I think there's going to be opportunities there. I mean, think about it. You got natural gas prices going up and then you have fertilizers, ammonia prices go up and then eventually drives uh the situation with agricultural. So, that's why they're all linked to each other. And when you see something lagging substantially and you are potentially in a long-term cycle for commodities, you want to pay very close attention to the laggers. They're usually your best bet for the next one to two years. Yeah. Yeah. I think great takeaway and I just want to go back to silver. You mentioned maybe copper could be looking like the next silver. Everybody wants to know what that could be. You had another good chart that is essentially comparing >> silver miners to silver ratio and it's it looks like it's at a low point. So what does that tell us about the price and the miners? >> It tell us that the market thinks that silver prices at these levels is unsustainable and I don't believe in that. And so if you want investing mining companies today, you have to answer that question. What's your view on that? My view is that we're no longer in an environment where silver prices will go low like they were in the last two decades. Meaning, are we going to go back to $25 an ounce environment? I think it's highly unlikely. Some people will tell you that silver has already crashed from 120 and it's on the way down. That's not my opinion. If that's your view, miners are pricing that. If your view is maybe we'll stay where it is now. Right now we're maybe even going back to 100. I mean it's it's you know it's at a 85 and 90 and now went close to 100 again. I don't know. Your guess is as good as mine and this is why I like the miners because the miners at this environment what who cares where it is? Some of these companies are have margins better than Google, right? I mean a lot of these companies are mining at about $15 $17 an ounce. If you're selling them the commodity 80, 90, 100, I mean, what type of margin is that? So, it just feels like that operational leverage in the market of mining is just not being priced reflecting the price correctly. And I think I think it's going to be a lot of rerating in that aspect. So, >> yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. And we're coming to the end. I'm going to give you before I let you go, my fun question that I'm trying to ask everybody. So, if there was a young person, yeah, they're new to the resource sector, they have $10,000 they want to deploy, how would you tell them to do that? >> $10,000, how they would do it? Um, I think I think I would deploy in different H that's a good question. I think I would put some maybe $3,000 or so into um agricultural commodities. uh just because the timing of things, I would put another three three to 4,000 into energy and I would look for some maybe copper miners as the remainer. Um yeah, I think that that sound Yeah, I mean that would probably be one place to to to to be separating the capital. I mean, I'm just trying to think here out loud, but yeah, I like I like the symmetry of agricultural. I like this the the the trending of energy and I like the long-term idea of mining. So, I suspect that mining that agriculture will be your most asymmetric path in the next two two years or so, but you said long term. So, I think mining looks very attractive for long term and could be your biggest winner. So, um >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Does that answer your question? >> Yeah. I think I like to hear the thought process, too. So, thank you for for handling that one. >> You know, I think there's a lot of, you know, I invest a lot in exploration and exploration is you you you make a bunch of investments on things and and you make several mistakes, but if you get one right, that's that's what pays off everything, all the mistakes you made. Macro is very similar and people get very political and they they eventually never looking for something that is exceptionally cheap. When I apply macro analysis into markets, there's a few things that look exceptionally cheap today that could be extremely asymmetric. Again, I could be wrong in three of them and if I get one right, it's going to go on. One of them is agricultural for sure. The second one, people are going to call me absolutely crazy, is TLT, call options. In other words, treasuries, long-term treasuries, because nobody believes that the interest rates are going to fall substantially. So, if you take the risk on the long end of the curve, which everybody's going to call me crazy, I get it. That is very cheap. Number three is Chinese equities. I know Chinese equities is a second order effect, third order effect on the dollar weakening trade. dollar weakens, Chinese equities could explode. Now, of course, you do this call options because you don't know, I don't know if they're going to invade Taiwan tomorrow and you know, you lose all your money. So, if you do through call options, you know what you lose. And there's a fourth one that it's going to surprise you. I also like call options on German banks. That's very nothing to do with resources. um these things you just they are exceptionally cheap. These are very very cheap two-year options that if you get one of them right, it's just um you know that's how you make most of your capital. So I like doing these things every now and then and I have this sort of kind of derivatives account that I I play these bats and it it works really well because you always get one right. If you get one right then then it sort of makes up for your losses and so because they're cheap, right? And it's not because, you know, you you're playing a cheap market and nobody believes in it. I get it. Nobody believes in it. That's fine. But if one of them is right, it's it's a exceptional investment. So, yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's really interesting. I guess if people are calling you crazy, maybe that's a good place to be. >> Oh, I love being called crazy. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, okay. I will let us wrap it up there. I'll send you back out unless you had any very very final thoughts. Um I don't have any final final thoughts um aside from being very focused on those these three big trends that I think are going to be remarkably important for investors and also the fact that we >> I keep thinking about a world if you think about all these trade ideas that I mentioned they kind of fall in the category of beneficiaries of two things awakening dollar and or falling interest rates in the class and so that's that's where I come from in terms of my views. >> I think that ties it together nicely. So, thank you so much for taking the time. This was great. >> Thanks. >> Okay. And once again, I'm Charlotte Mloud with investingnews.com and this is Tabby Costa.